# CS4320-A4.1

Case: A retailer selling your personal information to others for profit

Summary: 
A retailer selling your personal information to others for profit raises many ethical issues. The biggest ethical issues that arise stem from the invasion of customer's privacy which could potentially damage customer relationships and the retailer's reputation/business. This ethical issue affects decisions like how the company should collect data, who they should sell the data to, how transparent they should be with their data collection practices, etc. The outcome of these decisions affect both technical (retailer software, adverteiser software, retailer hardware, retailer-customer communication software) and sociotechnical systems (customers, employees, managers, data buyers, data, laws, loyalty card program). All these decisions and the ethical issues that arise from making these decisions affect the customers whose data is being collected, and therefore also the relationships the retailer maintains with the customer. 

Operational/strategic decisions of the company affect how retailers use their data collection software, how/what software their adverteisers use and third party buyers (who the retailer is selling the data to). These decisions are usually made by managers who seek to maximize profit for their stakeholders. The decision also affects what communication looks like between the retailer and the customer. For example, if the retailer decides not to let the customer know that their data is being collected or hide those conditions with wordy terms and conditions, then communication would be limited. If the retailer decides to let the customer know when and how their data is being used with monthly updates through their loyalty card program, then communication would be more frequent and may also help strengthen the customer relationships and trust in the retailer. 
